docs/github-actions-runner-setup-public-repos.md, before:

# Setting up a github actions runner for public repos

## The Problem

Self hosted runners are generally not safe for public repositories. When someone makes a pull request, they could inject arbitrary code into your workflow run, possibly gaining root access to the runner. 
This is not a problem for the github-provided runners, as they are only virtual machines that are disposed after each workflow run.

## The Solution

To achieve a similar level of security, we can use Docker images for our self hosted runner. By accessing github APIs we can check if a job is queued, then spin up a fresh docker container that auto-registers itself as the runner.
This document follows the steps outlined in [this article](https://dev.to/wayofthepie/ephemeral-self-hosted-github-actions-runners-1h5m).

### Generate a personal access token

Spinning up a new runner requires a github access token, which you'd have to get from the github website everytime a runner needs to be started. This would prevent automatically starting a fresh docker container for each workflow run.
Fortunately, github allows to generate these tokens via a web API. This API itself needs a "master token" which we will generate now.

- Open github.com and navigate to  _Account Settings_ > _Developer Settings_ > _Personal Access Tokens_
- Click on "Generate New Token"
- Give the token a name, e.g. `actions-runner-registration` and select all Scopes in the _Repo_ category
- Generate the token and store it somewhere safe. This is the only time you'll see this token.

### Install Docker

Run these commands on the Raspberry Pi that's going to be the host computer for the daisyHat tests.

- Remove any previous docker installation you might have `sudo apt-get remove docker docker-engine docker.io containerd runc`
- Install the latest updates for your system: `sudo apt-get update` and `sudo apt-get upgrade`
- Install dependencies for the Docker installation: `sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg lsb-release`
- Get Dockers official GPG key: `curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg`
- Setup the docker repository: `echo "deb [arch=arm64 signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null`
- Install the docker engine: `sudo apt-get update` and `sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io`
- Check that docker ist installed correctly: `sudo docker run hello-world`
- So far, you'll have to use `sudo` for all your docker commands. Let's change this according to the official Docker postinstall steps:
    - Add a "docker" group: `sudo groupadd docker`
    - Add the current suer to this group: `sudo usermod -aG docker $USER`
    - Log out and back in (or restart) for the changes to be applied, then verify that you can run docker without sudo: `docker run hello-world`
- Start the docker service automatically after booting: `sudo systemctl enable docker.service` and `sudo systemctl enable containerd.service`

### Test the docker image

- Get `Dockerfile` and `entrypoint.sh` (TODO)
- Run `docker build -t actions-image .`
- Start the image to test it: `docker run -ti --rm actions-image ${OWNER} ${REPO} ${PAT} my-runner`
- Quit the image with Ctrl-C

### Install the python web API that launches the docker container on request

- Instal the python flask module that serves the API `sudo apt-get install python3-flask`
- Get `daisyHatDockerOrchestrator.py` that defines the web API.
- Start the web API via `FLASK_APP=daisyHatDockerOrchestrator FLASK_ENV=development GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN=<your-token> flask run`
- Open `http://localhost:5000/start` to start the container. It should spin up and a github runner should be registered for your configured repo.
- After the container built one job, it shuts down. If there's an error, you can use `http://localhost:5000/stop` to force-quit the container.

Commit message:

Fix USB device passthrough; update scripts; add automatic container clean restart

docs/github-actions-runner-setup-public-repos.md, after:

# Setting up a github actions runner for public repos

## The Problem

Self hosted runners are generally not safe for public repositories. When someone makes a pull request, they could inject arbitrary code into your workflow run, possibly gaining root access to the runner. 
This is not a problem for the github-provided runners, as they are only virtual machines that are disposed after each workflow run.

## The Solution

To achieve a similar level of security, we can use Docker images for our self hosted runner. By accessing github APIs we can check if a job is queued, then spin up a fresh docker container that auto-registers itself as the runner.
This document follows the steps outlined in [this article](https://dev.to/wayofthepie/ephemeral-self-hosted-github-actions-runners-1h5m).

### Generate a personal access token

Spinning up a new runner requires a github access token, which you'd have to get from the github website everytime a runner needs to be started. This would prevent automatically starting a fresh docker container for each workflow run.
Fortunately, github allows to generate these tokens via a web API. This API itself needs a "master token" which we will generate now.

- Open github.com and navigate to  _Account Settings_ > _Developer Settings_ > _Personal Access Tokens_
- Click on "Generate New Token"
- Give the token a name, e.g. `actions-runner-registration` and select all Scopes in the _Repo_ category
- Generate the token and store it somewhere safe. This is the only time you'll see this token.

### Install Docker

Run these commands on the Raspberry Pi that's going to be the host computer for the daisyHat tests.

- Remove any previous docker installation you might have `sudo apt-get remove docker docker-engine docker.io containerd runc`
- Install the latest updates for your system: `sudo apt-get update` and `sudo apt-get upgrade`
- Install dependencies for the Docker installation: `sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg lsb-release`
- Get Dockers official GPG key: `curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg`
- Setup the docker repository: `echo "deb [arch=arm64 signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null`
- Install the docker engine: `sudo apt-get update` and `sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io`
- Check that docker ist installed correctly: `sudo docker run hello-world`
- So far, you'll have to use `sudo` for all your docker commands. Let's change this according to the official Docker postinstall steps:
    - Add a "docker" group: `sudo groupadd docker`
    - Add the current suer to this group: `sudo usermod -aG docker $USER`
    - Log out and back in (or restart) for the changes to be applied, then verify that you can run docker without sudo: `docker run hello-world`
- Start the docker service automatically after booting: `sudo systemctl enable docker.service` and `sudo systemctl enable containerd.service`

### Setup the environment variables
daisyhat scripts need certain environment variables to be defined.
- Download `setupEnvVars.sh` from the scripts/ folder; move it to `~/daisyHat/setupEnvVars.sh` and edit the contents to your liking
- Load the contents for the rest of the current session: `source $HOME/daisyHat/setupEnvVars.sh`
- Automatically include these environment variables in the next shell session: `echo "source $HOME/daisyHat/setupEnvVars.sh" >> $HOME/.bash_profile`

### Test the docker image

- Download `Dockerfile` and `entrypoint.sh` from the docker/ folder; move it to `~/daisyHat/docker`
- Download `startDockerContainer.sh` from the scripts/ folder; move it to `~/daisyHat/`
- Run `cd ~/daisyHat/docker && docker build -t ${DAISYHAT_DOCKER_IMAGE} .`
- Start the image to test it: `~/daisyHat/startDockerContainer.sh`
- Github runner should come online
- Quit the image with Ctrl-C

### Install the python web API that launches the docker container on request

- Instal the python flask module that serves the API `sudo apt-get install python3-flask`
- Get `daisyHatDockerOrchestrator.py` that defines the web API.
- Start the web API via `FLASK_APP=daisyHatDockerOrchestrator FLASK_ENV=development GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN=<your-token> flask run`
- Open `http://localhost:5000/start` to start the container. It should spin up and a github runner should be registered for your configured repo.
- After the container built one job, it shuts down. If there's an error, you can use `http://localhost:5000/stop` to force-quit the container.
